#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 620
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto-legacy
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_formatted_ref 0
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content true
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\docbook_table_output 0
\docbook_mathml_prefix 1
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Teorema di Holmgren
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Altre applicazioni rilevanti
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I.
 Ekeland
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Cartan Kahler
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4 (with Chiappori),
 "Aggregation and market demand:
 an exterior differential calculus viewpoint",
 Econometrica,
 67 (1999),
 p.
 1435-1458
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper solves a basic problem in economic theory,
 which had remained open for thirty years,
 namely the characterization of market demand functions.
 The method of proof consists of reducing the problem to a system of nonlinear PDEs,
 for which convex solutions are sought.
 This is rewritten as an exterior differential system,
 and is solved by the Cartan-Kähler theorem,
 together with some algebraic manipulations to achieve convexity.
 The introduction of exterior differential calculus proved to be a breakthrough,
 and was the starting point of a long collaboration with P.A.
 Chiappori.
 We realized that the mathematical structure we had discovered in this problem was to be found also in one of the major problems of econometrics:
 given a group (a household,
 for instance),
 can one characterize and identify the preferences of each member if one observes only the collective demand ?.
 I am happy to say that this research program is now concluded,
 with the publication of two major papers [14] and [25] and a100-pages survey [28] which will probably turn into a book.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
14:
 (with P.A.
 Chiappori) "The microeconomics of group behaviour:
 general characterization".
 Journal of Economic Theory,
 september 2006 ,
 volume 130 (p.1 – 26)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
25:
 (with P.A.
 Chiappori) "The microeconomics of group behaviour:
 Identification".
 Econometrica,
 2005,
 44 pages
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
28:
 (with P.A.
 Chiappori).
 "The mathematics and economics of aggregation".
 Foundations and Trends in Economic Theory,
 2009
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
